Get user management metrics (#170)
medic/cht-user-management: scripts/deploy/watchdog-config/readme.md

## Install

Needs to have first:

* A Watchdog instance installed and running with a `cht-instances.yml` populated
* Have a user-management instance working

What you have to do:

1. Check out `cht-watchdog` repo in the same directory as user management app project root directory
2. Symlink in `watchdog-config` from `cht-user-management`  project folder to base of `cht-watchdog` repo(Give a meaningful name to Symlink in watchdog repo):
3. Go to the root of `cht-watchdog` directory in the terminal and then run below command
   ```
   ln -s ./cht-user-management/scripts/deploy/watchdog-config/ user-management
   ```
4. You might need to update thes variables in `.env` from `cht-user-management` directory to avoid conflict with the port `3000` on which `grafana` is runing.
   ```
   PORT=3000             # for development environment
   EXTERNAL_PORT=3000    # for docker
   ```
5. While in the Watchdog(`cht-watchdog`) directory, start it with:
   ```
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml \
       -f user-management/user-management-compose.yml \
       up -d --remove-orphans
   ```

> ## Visualizing metrics
> 
> #### Prometheus instance runing
> 
> 1. Open this url [http://127.0.0.1:9090/](Prometheus) and it will take you to prometheus home page where you can check the metrics instances status(`Up, Down, Unknown`).
>    1. Steps to check the status
>       1. Go to `Status` in the menu bar
>       2. Select Target  and check that the status of cht-user management is up
> 2. To check if data is populated in prometheus then go to graph and run a query on any of the metrics from user.
> 
> #### Add dashboard to Grafana 
> 
> 1. Open this url [http://localhost:3000]() and it will take you to grafana home page
> 2. Click on `hamburger menu` and then select dashboard
> 3. Click on add new dashboard and then add visualization, then select prometheus as data source
> 4. Look for metrics and select the metric you would like to visualize and run queries to see data representation.
> 
> #### Add dashboard from template
> 
> 1. Go to [https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/]() and select the template you want
> 2. On right side of the template detail page and copy the template `ID`
> 3. Back to grafana home [http://localhost:3000]()
> 4. Click on `hamburger menu` and then select dashboard
> 5. Click on add new dashboard and then import dashbord, then paste the copied ID and click on load.

Reviewer: Since we've already added the dashboard and this is a one time process, I propose we remove most of this content and rebrand it as "debugging":

``````suggestion
## Debugging

### Prometheus instance 

To see if prometheus instance is working inside Watchdog and correctly scraping your User Management Tool's `/metrics` endpiont:

1. Open http://127.0.0.1:9090/targets?search= 
2. Scroll down until you see `user-management-metrics` and ensure there are no errors 
3. To see if data is flowing, go to "graph" on the top and run a query on any of the metrics,  `nodejs_eventloop_lag_seconds` for example 

### Port conflicts 

If you're running CHT Watchdog on the same server as the User Management Tool with `node run dev`, change the internal `PORT` in the `.env` [file](https://github.com/medic/cht-user-management/blob/main/env.example) for `cht-user-management` to avoid conflict with the port `3000` on which `grafana` runs in Watchdog.  Here you can see it set as `3500`:
```
PORT=3500             # for development environment
```

If you're running CHT User Management tool with Docker, change `EXTERNAL_PORT`  to `3500`:

```
EXTERNAL_PORT=3500    # for docker
```
``````

Reviewer: These changes haven't been committed and I still suggest we add them.

# CHT Watchdog config files

> These files will allow a [CHT Watchdog](https://github.com/medic/cht-watchdog/) instance to easily query CHT User **Management Tool **`**/metrics**`** endpoint to enable monitoring**

Reviewer: formatting tweak:

```suggestion
These files will allow a [CHT Watchdog](https://github.com/medic/cht-watchdog/) instance to easily query CHT User Management Tool `/metrics` endpoint to enable monitoring**
```
